Introduction
Being connected even when being away from home or office is becoming ever more important. But planning the infrastructure for such connected mobility (e.g. WLAN) can be difficult. 
For estimating the requirements of the infrastructure simulations of the networks’ clients and their movements can be a very powerful tool. In this work the faculty building of the Technical University of Munich is used as an example for such a simulation. We aim for creating a model that realistically captures the movement of people within and in the surroundings of the faculty building.
We will capture and analyze data from the simulation to determine the movement characteristics of the clients. Further work could be done to simulate the networking environment and deriving ways of enhancing the network quality for the mobile clients within the building.

Description of the simulation area
The faculty building is located in the south of the research center campus of Garching, near Munich. There is a metro station in the north east of the building reachable through a five minute walk. Many of the students travel to the faculty using the metro. Aside from the metro, there are two large parking lots in the east and in the west respectively of the building. The bounds of our simulation area will cover the building itself and a reasonable space around it to account for people coming from the metro and the two parking lots. Those will be important for having an accurate representation of the inbound student flow and hence the students inside the building.
On the inside, the faculty building is separated into several areas in which students show different movement behaviors. Directly on entry students enter the main hall, where different activities such as studying, social interaction and eating are carried out. There are 10 “fingers” connected to the main hall where many of the lecture and seminar rooms are located. Also there are several large lecture halls and a library directly attached to the main hall.
